well for more on all of this we're
joined Now by Kristen salumi who is at
New York University Kristen can you just
talk us through what is happening there
right now and how much momentum uh is
Behind These
protests well NYU demonstrators have
been going at it for hours here in a
park that's actually just off of the NYU
campus they've been here since
a few hours ago uh after getting kicked
off of their own campus uh due to arrest
133 students and teachers were actually
arrested on campus last night the
university claiming they were disruptive
and a danger to the students there but
as news spread of their arrests so have
demonstrations around the country at
other colleges and universities
police moved in after dark to arrest
demonstrators at New York University
where over 100 students and teachers
defied orders to leave a school Plaza or
face
consequences there were arrests at Yale
University too dozens of them these
students and others across the country
coming out in protest of Israel's
devastating war on Gaza and in
solidarity with Colombia University
students there the so-called Gaza
solidarity encampment has been
re-erected after the school called in
police to arrest more than 100 students
and dismantle it last week we demand
that all Columbia's faculty joined
protesters to condemn the
move initiated by the University
president who canel in-person classes
Monday to address security concerns the
president's
decision to send riot police to pick up
peaceful
protesters on our
campus was
unprecedented
unjustified
disproportionate
divisive and dangerous they are outraged
not only by the arrest but also by
President namat Manu shafi's testimony
before Congress while conservative
Representatives called for shafi's
resignation for not doing more to crack
down on demonstrators the school Senate
consisting of students faculty and
administrators is expected to vote to
censure her as early as Wednesday it's
very important for faculty to um defend
the university in a way that our
president did not before Congress
student demonstrators including Jewish
student demonstrators deny accusations
of anti-Semitism at Columbia University
they even stop their protest to
celebrate the first night of passover
they describe their movement as peaceful
and blame any antagonistic inflammatory
statements or actions on
Outsiders from California's state
Polytechnic University on the west coast
to the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Emerson College on the
East the demands for school leaders are
the same we want Emerson College number
one call for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza number two to disclose all
financial investments in Zionist
organizations number three to divest
from those organizations number four to
drop all charges against students for
disciplinary
actions attempts to silence the movement
only amplifying its call Kristen salumi
Al jazer New
York and speaking to demonstrators here
today I was struck by how many of them
were actually wearing masks and covering
their faces they say that they're
concerned about blowback and
discrimination against them for
supporting this cause but say that they
will continue in fact many have left the
park here to join demonstrations up at
Colombia University and support uh other
schools in the city uh a school by the
name of the new school also seeing
demonstrators here in Minnesota the
state of Minnesota the state of Michigan
the state of Pennsylvania today have all
added demonstrations with students there
the uh mayor of New York has expressed
concern that these protests will attract
uh agitators who are looking to do harm
while he defended the students right to
protest he said that they had concerns
that there would be uh more violence and
action although the protests have been
overwhelmingly peaceful at this point uh
the demonstrators I spoke to here said
that absolutely they were peaceful and
intent they're not anti-semitic they say
that things only got out of hand when
the police
arrived okay thank you so much Kristen
Kristen salumi for us there outside New
York
University protests have also been held
in Tel Aviv where pressure is mounting
on prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
relatives of captives and their
supporters taped their mouths with the
message 200 days and nothing has changed
talks on freeing captives held in Gaza
have stalled as Israel has refused to
accept a permanent
ceasefire and my brother-in-law is back
there in
Gaza and with
with 32 more people it's too much this
needs to be
end we need to have our
peace and the families need to have
peace and this country
need to
have the head of the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees says Israel's
recent attacks on the group are part of
a push to remove the organization from
the Gaza Strip in January Israel accused
some un staff of involvement in hamas's
October 7th attacks but a review of the
agency's operations released on Monday
stated that Israel has not provided
supporting evidence for its
claim well the authors of that review
made a list of recommendations to ensure
accountability and the neutrality of
unra earlier my colleague Rob meon spoke
to the agency's commissioner Philipe
lazarini he began by asking him if he
thought that would help restore
confidence and
honor I really hope that the report will
help us to restore the confidence of our
partners and the donors uh the Secretary
General and myself have welcomed the
report we have welcom also the recommend
and you might have noticed that the
report clearly indicated that the agency
already have a number of robust
mechanism to deal with a neutrality
issue and that this mechanis are above I
would say the standard of many other
agencies or International noos but
because of the nature of the conflict we
are dealing with and the complexity of
our environment it is is needed to do
even better and this is the reason why
uh we Embrace and I embrace the
recommendation made by Kine Cola and her
team and we are now preparing a response
plan to follow up on this recommendation
MH uh during your press conference you
gave a long list of uh the level of of
damage to unor property and of course
the the effect that this has had on on
staff the arrests that have been carried
out and so on what is the morale of
staff at Ona at the moment of course not
just in Gaza but in all the areas that
it operates when it must I would imagine
feel that is under constant pressure
yeah un is under constant attack
constant pressure constant call of
dismantling a constant administrative
harrassment and also constant I would
say sometimes social media uh
assassination and this has definitely an
impact on our St
you might also have seen over the last
few days there have been an opinion poll
and also within the population in the
West Bank and in Gaza there is a deep
anxiety that if the the agency is
dismantled that this would also put an
end to the two-state solution I was at
the security Council uh last week and
basically I told the member that the
attack on un have nothing to do with
neutrality issues but in reality they
are motivated by the objective to strip
the Palestinian uh from their Refugee
status you also mentioned in your press
conference that within 24 hours of the
allegations originally being made by Me
by Israel about members of Ona allegedly
taking part in the hamus L October 7th
attacks in southern Israel 16 to 18
countries have pulled their fund How
concerned and how worried are you that
countries are prepared to pull funding
so quickly before allegations are
actually determined to be
founded that that shows also the
unprecedented crisis uh and Challen the
agency is currently uh facing and
dealing with uh it is true that 16
country within 48 Hours announce their
PS but the good news is that since most
of the countries have reviewed the
decision and have reinstated the
contribution to the agency at the time
they took the decision uh it had uh the
the agency basically had no visibility
anymore about its uh Financial
contribution today thanks to the fact
that most of the donors have come back
and new donor have also joined uh the
agencies we have slightly more
visibilities and I can't say with some
comfort
that we have enough resources to keep
our activities running at least till the
end of June uh and go into the month of
July but it's very precarious and we
continue to function uh Mouse to hand to
Mouse make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer